--- Page 1 ---
AI agent
trends
2026
Five shifts that will
redefine roles, workflows,
Interactive report
and business value in 2026.
1

--- Page 2 ---
About this
report
This report provides key insights for business
leaders to shape their AI agent strategy for
2026 and beyond. Within each trend, you will
find real-life examples, technical resources,
and customer stories to share with your
teams for deeper learning.
These trends were identified using a blend
of qualitative and quantitative data, including
internal Google Cloud and Google DeepMind
interviews with AI leaders, customer case
studies, and insights from The ROI of AI 2025
report (based on a global survey of 3,466
enterprise decision makers), with analysis
using NotebookLM and Google AI Studio.
Ask the report
Want to dig deeper into the trends?
NotebookLM is ready to help—simply click the
icon for an interactive version of this report.
2

--- Page 3 ---
AI agents are
redefining business
value in 2026
The ceiling for human While headlines focus on the distant future of
Artificial General Intelligence (AGI), the decisive
achievement has been lifted.
shift for business is happening right now.
That shift is agentic AI. This is AI that moves
beyond answering questions to understanding
a goal, making a plan, and taking actions across
applications to achieve it with extensive
human guidance and oversight.
Due to this capability, AI is one of the first
technologies that applies to every single person,
in both our personal and professional lives.
Its power lies in its ability to augment human
capacity with better recall, faster data processing,
and enhanced reasoning across the back office,
front office, and corner office. Achieving this,
however, depends on ensuring widespread
access, necessary skills development, and
broad participation for everyone.
In this report, we explore five key AI agent trends
shaping business in 2026. Unlocking the value of
these trends requires more than simply adopting
new tools. It also demands that leaders question
old assumptions and drive the cultural change
necessary to thrive in this new, agentic AI era.
What are AI agents?
Agents are systems that combine the
intelligence of advanced AI models with
access to tools so they can take actions
on your behalf, under your control.
I/O, May 2025
Keynote by Sundar Pichai, CEO, Google
Ask the report 3

--- Page 4 ---
AI agents are the leap from being
an ‘add-on’ approach to being an
‘AI-first’ process. It’s a fundamental
change in workflow, a new way to
work that will require a profound shift
in mindset and corporate culture.”
Oliver
Parker
Vice President, Global GTM for Generative AI,
Google Cloud
Ask the report 4

--- Page 5 ---
5 AI trends
shaping 2026
Agents for every employee
1
Empowering individuals to
achieve peak productivity
Agents for every workflow
2
Running your business with
grounded agentic systems
Agents for your customers
3
Delighting customers with
concierge-like experiences
Agents for security
4
Advancing security
from alerts to action
Agents for scale
5
Upskilling talent will be the
ultimate driver of business value
Ask the report 55

--- Page 6 ---
Trend 1 2 3 4 5
Agents for
every employee
Empowering
individuals to
achieve peak
productivity
Ask the report 6

--- Page 7 ---
1 Agents for every employee 2 3 4 5
The most significant
business shift of 2026 isn’t
just about efficiency; it’s
a fundamental, employee-
centric transformation.
This new agentic model is designed to
expand the potential of every individual,
turning them into the primary engine for
innovation and growth.
This change stems from a behavioral shift in
the human-computer interface, moving from
instruction-based computing (e.g., analyzing
a spreadsheet, developing code) to intent-
based computing. In 2026, employees will be
increasingly able to state a desired outcome,
and the computer—using LLMs and agents—
determines how to deliver it.
52%
of executives in gen AI-using organizations have AI agents in
production,1 deploying them across a wide range of use cases:2
Of those:
49%
use agents for customer service
46%
use agents for marketing or security operations
45%
use agents for tech support
43%
use agents for product innovation or productivity and research
1 Google Cloud, The ROI of AI, 2025 (Total global: n=3466; Questions: (1) How are AI agents leveraged across the enterprise? (2) How many AI agents does your company
currently have deployed in production across your organization?)
2 Google Cloud, The ROI of AI, 2025 (Executives whose organization is leveraging agentic AI: n=1814; Question: What use cases has your company deployed AI agents for?)
Ask the report 77

--- Page 8 ---
1 Agents for every employee 2 3 4 5
By 2026, agents will manage complex,
multi-step workflows across systems.
A key responsibility of employees will
be to set the strategy and oversee the
system of agents responsible for tasks,
such as invoicing and contracting.”
Saurabh
Tiwary
VP, General Manager,
Cloud AI, Google Cloud
This surge in AI [agent] adoption reflects a fundamental
mindset shift to recognizing it as a productivity
instrument available 24/7. At TELUS, we’ve seen
this firsthand—over 57,000 team members regularly
use AI and save 40 minutes per AI interaction.”
Jaime Tatis
Chief AI Officer, TELUS
Ask the report 8

--- Page 9 ---
1 Agents for every employee 2 3 4 5
A new integrated
working model
In this new model, every
What is grounding in AI?
employee—from an entry-
It is the process of anchoring an
level analyst to a senior
AI model’s responses to a specific,
vice president—becomes
verifiable set of facts—its “ground
a human supervisor of agents. truth.” For an enterprise, this
ground truth is its own internal data.
Their primary job is no longer to perform every
Learn more
mundane task personally, but rather to orchestrate
a team of specialized AI agents to achieve a goal.
This model is about more than just delegation;
it’s about augmentation. The real power comes
from giving every employee agents grounded in
the company’s own enterprise context—its internal
systems, knowledge bases, customer data, and
past work—to elevate the impact of their efforts.
The employee’s core function becomes providing
strategic direction. Their new responsibilities are to:
Delegate mundane or repetitive tasks
Identify which tasks are best suited for an
agent and assign them.
Set goals
Clearly define the desired outcome
for the agent.
Outline strategy
Use their human judgment to guide
the agents and make the final, nuanced
decisions that AI can’t.
Verify quality
Act as the final checkpoint for quality,
accuracy, and tone.
Ask the report 9

--- Page 10 ---
1 Agents for every employee 2 3 4 5
As roles shift to agent management,
enabling employees is vital, especially
in regions like Japan that rely on system
integrators (SIs). Democratization via
tools like Gemini Enterprise allows
knowledge workers to build agents,
improving productivity and elevating
the SI partnerships to focus on
complex, long-term initiatives.”
Hiroyuki
Koike
Managing Director,
Customer Engineering,
Japan, Google Cloud
Ask the report 10

--- Page 11 ---
1 Agents for every employee 2 3 4 5
How it works
The 10x marketing
manager
A marketing manager’s job used to be a
constant scramble of drafting posts, pulling
data, and watching competitors. In 2026,
they can orchestrate a system of specialized
AI agents to achieve their goals, rather
than performing every task personally.
With agents focusing on specific tasks, the
marketing manager can multiply their output
by focusing on high-impact brand storytelling
and strategic campaign development.
An example of a Gemini Enterprise home page
Ask the report 11

--- Page 12 ---
1 Agents for every employee 2 3 4 5
The marketing manager’s
specialized agent system
Their new role involves orchestrating five specialized agents:
Data agent Analyst agent
This agent can sift through millions Its job is to monitor market trends,
of structured and unstructured competitor announcements, and
data points to find actionable social media sentiment 24/7. It delivers
patterns in market trends. a one-page report of key insights to the
marketing manager’s inbox every morning.
Content agent Creative agent
Given a strategic theme for the week, The marketing manager supplies the
the agent drafts copy for several social agent with a marketing strategy, creative
media posts and a blog article in the guidelines, and social copy. The agent
company’s brand voice, then shares it then generates images and videos
with the marketing manager for review. to accompany those social posts and
shares them with the marketing manager.
Reporting agent
This agent connects to the company’s
analytics platforms. With the marketing
manager’s guidance and oversight,
this agent pulls and analyzes weekly
campaign data and delivers a one-page
summary of key insights every Friday.
Data tip
Teams can use data agents
as an intelligence multiplier.
Learn more
Ask the report 12

--- Page 13 ---
1 Agents for every employee 2 3 4 5
Suzano, the world’s largest pulp manufacturer and
a leader in sustainable bioeconomics, worked with
Google Cloud and Sauter to develop an AI agent
built with Gemini Pro to translate natural language
questions into SQL code to query SAP Materials data
on BigQuery. This has resulted in a 95% reduction
in the time required for queries among the 50,000
employees using the data.
Ready to 10x your team?
Gemini Enterprise enables
employees to build and manage
their own specialized AI agents.
Try now
Ask the report 13

--- Page 14 ---
1 Agents for every employee 2 3 4 5
There is a common misconception that agents
act without control. Humans will remain the
orchestrators and final decision-makers.
Agents will function as powerful assistants
to augment human-centric workflows.
Take the media and entertainment industry,
where agents can help in the understanding
of vast amounts of complex content and data
—and human creative and strategic thinking
will remain critical to deciding which stories
to tell, how to tell the stories, how to fund and
distribute and monetize and market these
stories, compliance, rights management, and
of course, where not to invest time and effort.”
Albert
Lai
Director, Telco, Media & Technology,
Global Strategic Industries,
Google Cloud
Ask the report 14

--- Page 15 ---
1 Trend 2 3 4 5
Agents for
every workflow
Running your
business with
grounded
agentic
systems
Ask the report 15

--- Page 16 ---
1 2 Agents for every workflow 3 4 5
An agentic system is a digital
assembly line—a human-
guided, multi-step workflow
that orchestrates multiple
agents to run a business
process end to end.
88%
The true value in 2026 begins with
augmenting the capabilities of individuals
and teams, and continues to grow by
of agentic AI early adopters
making the entire business run more
are now seeing a positive ROI
intelligently and efficiently, 24/7, at scale.
on at least one gen AI use case3
AI is driving a generational refactoring of the
enterprise—the core workflows and the entire
technology stack. AI agents will transform
complex, multi-step processes like procurement,
security operations and customer support—
shifting the human roles to focus on high-value,
strategic orchestration across the business.”
Francis
deSouza
COO and President,
Security Products,
Google Cloud
3 Google Cloud, The ROI of AI, 2025 (Agentic AI early adopters: n=460; Question text: In what timeframe
do you expect gen AI to deliver return on investment (ROI) to the following areas of your business?)
Ask the report 16

--- Page 17 ---
1 2 Agents for every workflow 3 4 5
The real value will lie in using agentic
workflows to integrate siloed functions,
such as network operations, field
services, and customer contact centers
in telecommunications. Agents could
autonomously remediate network
anomalies, proactively open a ticket with
the field service systems, and alert contact
centers to inform customers of a technician
dispatch, all in one integrated sequence.”
Angelo
Libertucci
Director, Telecom,
Global Strategic Industries, Google Cloud
Ask the report 17

--- Page 18 ---
1 2 Agents for every workflow 3 4 5
Digital assembly line:
Orchestrating agentic
systems
A digital assembly line While LLMs are the “brains” of these agents,
they have two major limitations: their knowledge
is made possible by the
is frozen at the time of their training, and they
Agent2Agent (A2A) protocol.
can’t interact with the outside world to access
real-time data or perform actions.
This open standard enables seamless
The Model Context Protocol (MCP) solves this.
integration and orchestration between
It creates a standardized, two-way connection
AI agents, allowing them to work together
for AI applications, allowing LLMs to easily
even if they are from different developers,
connect with various data sources and tools,
built on different frameworks, or owned
such as managed databases (e.g., Cloud SQL,
by different organizations.
Spanner) and data platforms (e.g., BigQuery).
Ask the report 18

--- Page 19 ---
1 2 Agents for every workflow 3 4 5
Salesforce is working with Google Cloud to create
AI agents that work across both platforms using the
newly launched Agent2Agent (A2A) open protocol,
a leap forward in building an open, interoperable
foundation for agentic enterprises.
Elanco, a global leader in animal health, uses Gemini
models within its Elanco.ai platform to automatically
sort, extract key insights from, compare, and
restructure information from over 2,500 unstructured
policy and procedure documents per manufacturing
site. The AI agent improves accuracy and consistency,
reducing the risk of outdated or conflicting information
that could cost up to $1.3 million in productivity
impact at large sites.
Data tip
Discover how your data teams
can ground AI in your business data.
Get started
Ask the report 19

--- Page 20 ---
1 2 Agents for every workflow 3 4 5
Over the next few years, we will see significant
growth in Agent2Agent operations implemented
across industries. For example, an AI agent from
a media company could connect to a retailer’s
agent to showcase the details and pricing on a
specific product shown in streamed or broadcast
content. Similarly, AI agents at hospitals could
work directly with labs or insurance agents,
provided the patient grants permission to
handle their sensitive health data.”
Marcel
Silva
AI GTM & Sales LATAM,
Google Cloud
Ask the report 20

--- Page 21 ---
1 2 Agents for every workflow 3 4 5
How it works
Agentic ecommerce
in action
Today’s payment systems
assume a human is directly
initiating the purchase.
This poses a fundamental challenge for
security: What happens when a non-human
entity (the agent) is making the final transaction
decision, with pre-approval from a human?
An agent initiating a payment with a human’s
oversight and guidance under a new framework
like Google Agent Payments Protocol (AP2)
breaks this assumption. This raises critical
questions about how to prove user-given
authority for a purchase, how a merchant
can be sure an agent’s request is accurate
and not a hallucination, and who is ultimately
accountable in case of fraud.
Ask the report 21

--- Page 22 ---
1 2 Agents for every workflow 3 4 5
For example, a customer discovers a winter
jacket they want is unavailable in a specific
color. They can then tell their agent:
“Purchase this jacket when it
becomes available in black.
Don’t purchase it if the price
is more than $100.”
PayPal is creating agentic
The agent then monitors prices and availability shopping and commerce
and, with human pre-approval, executes a
experiences through adoption
secure purchase the moment that specific
of industry leading protocols
variant is found, capturing a high-intent sale
such as Google’s Agent
that would have otherwise been lost.
Payments Protocol (AP2),
a secure, open, scalable
solution paving the way for the
future of agentic commerce.
Try Vertex AI
Get started
Ask the report 22

--- Page 23 ---
1 2 Agents for every workflow 3 4 5
In 2026, agentic ecosystems will scale
from pilots to production in financial
services. For example, we’ll see multi-step
agentic compliance systems that can
monitor regulatory changes, identify
impacted policies, update internal
workflows, and create a complete audit
chain, making the process more efficient.”
Toby
Brown
Managing Director, Financial Services,
Global Strategic Industries, Google Cloud
Ask the report 23

--- Page 24 ---
1 2 Trend 3 4 5
Agents for
your customers
Delighting
customers with
concierge-like
experiences
Ask the report 24

--- Page 25 ---
1 2 3 Agents for your customers 4 5
For the last decade, customer
service automation meant
pre-programmed chatbots
answering simple questions
and deflecting support tickets.
They were efficient, but they lacked the ability to 49%
understand more nuanced and complex questions.
With advances in LLMs and A2A, 2026 will deliver
more helpful concierge-style agents. These AI of executives at organizations
agents will connect enterprises and customers by with AI agents in production
remembering preferences and past conversations report adopting agents for
to offer truly one-to-one experiences. customer service and experience4
Current call center automation systems require
callers to go through scripted options or pre-
programmed chats, often requiring them to
repeat ‘operator!’ to reach a human. Agents
allow for quicker, more natural interaction by
letting customers speak and provide context.
This return to verbal communication will be
a reality in the next 1–3 years.”
Paul
Tepfenhart
Director, Retail & Consumer,
Global Strategic Industries, Google Cloud
4 Google Cloud, The ROI of AI, 2025 (Executives whose organization is leveraging agentic AI: n=1814; Question text: What use cases has your company deployed AI agents for?)
Ask the report 25

--- Page 26 ---
1 2 3 Agents for your customers 4 5
Personalization
at scale
Your customer no longer has The difference isn’t just the AI, it’s the data.
The agentic concierge can succeed because
to start every conversation
it is grounded in an enterprise context you
by proving who they are or
choose to share for a particular customer—
from purchase history in the CRM to
re-explaining their problem.
package tracking in the logistics database.
Chatbot Agentic concierge
“Please enter your 12-digit “Hi, Elizaveta. I see you’re calling
order number.” about the blue sweater you
bought last week. Our system
shows it was just delivered.
Are you calling to start a
return or an exchange?”
Home Depot built Magic
Apron, an AI agent that
offers expert guidance
24/7, providing detailed
how-to instructions, product
recommendations, and review
summaries to make home
improvement easier.
Ask the report 26

--- Page 27 ---
1 2 3 Agents for your customers 4 5
Personalization extends beyond consumer
experiences. On the manufacturing floor,
for example, agentic systems could offer
personalized advice to managers. If the
second shift underperforms the first, the
system could inspect multiple machine
criteria and suggest solutions like offering
more training or recommending optimal
machine set points.”
Praveen
Rao
Director, Manufacturing,
Global Strategic Industries,
Google Cloud
Ask the report 27

--- Page 28 ---
1 2 3 Agents for your customers 4 5
How it works
Insightful and
always-on help
Customer service is
defined by its helpfulness.
Try Customer
An agentic concierge doesn’t wait for a
Engagement Suite
complaint. It monitors systems for triggers
and resolves problems using real-time data Get started
to provide insights and take actions with
human guidance and oversight.
Ask the report 28

--- Page 29 ---
1 2 3 Agents for your customers 4 5
Building trust through
proactive customer service.
Imagine this scenario: a logistics agent flags
a delivery as “failed” at 3 PM. Instead of waiting
for an angry customer to call, the concierge
agent could take the following steps:
1 Checks the backend and confirms
the delivery van broke down.
2 Accesses the logistics system to
reschedule the delivery for the first-
available slot tomorrow morning.
3 Logs in to the billing system and applies a
$10 service credit for the inconvenience.
Danfoss, a global manufacturer
4 Notifies the customer via text: operating in over 100 countries,
uses AI agents from Go
“Hi, we’re so sorry. Your package was
delayed due to a vehicle issue. We’ve Autonomous on Google Cloud
added a $10 credit to your account for
to automate email-based
the trouble. I’m happy to reschedule it
order processing. The solution
for tomorrow between 9–11 AM. Please
automated 80% of transactional
reply ‘Yes’ to confirm the new time or
respond with your preferred time.” decisions, reduced average
customer response time from
42 hours to near real-time,
The problem is resolved quickly. The agent is
designed to execute a “smart handoff” with and consolidated five systems
a full summary for complex or emotionally
into a single interface.
charged issues; human staff can step in if
the case becomes much more complex.
Ask the report 29

--- Page 30 ---
1 2 3 Agents for your customers 4 5
The greatest promise of agentic AI in 2026
is moving healthcare from a reactive system
into a predictive learning health system. For
providers, this means agents integrating data—
from imaging and EHRs to claims—to delivering
proactive insights directly into the clinician’s
workflow. This would allow preemptive risk
management across patient populations and
the democratization of high-quality healthcare.”
Aashima
Gupta
Director, Healthcare,
Global Strategic Industries, Google Cloud
Ask the report 30

--- Page 31 ---
1 2 3 Trend 4 5
Agents
for security
Advancing
security
from aler ts
to action
Ask the report 31

--- Page 32 ---
1 2 3 4 Agents for security 5
In a modern security operations center
(SOC), human analysts face a constant
stream of data and alerts, with 82%
concerned or very concerned that
they may be missing real threats
or incidents due to the amount of
alerts and data they are faced with.5
This “alert fatigue” is the attacker’s greatest Expanded Secure AI Framework 2.0 can help
advantage; they only need to be right once, address the rapidly emerging risks posed by
while the defender has to be right every autonomous AI agents. Additionally, early
single time. results from DeepMind’s research on
CodeMender, a new AI-powered agent that
While security orchestration automation improves code security automatically, already
and remediation (SOAR) solutions deliver demonstrated its ability to find new zero-day
some automation, they may offer only vulnerabilities in well-tested software.
incremental benefits. But with their ability
to reason, act, observe, and adjust actions In 2026, AI agents will increasingly help
based on new information, AI agents have with tasks like vulnerability discovery as
the potential to help security teams identify well as alert triage and investigation.
and respond to threats more effectively.
46%
of executives at organizations
with AI agents in production report
adopting agents for security
operations and cybersecurity6
5 Forrester Consulting on behalf of Google, Threat Intelligence Benchmark: Stop Reacting;
Start Anticipating, July 2025
6 Google Cloud, The ROI of AI, 2025 (Executives whose organization is leveraging agentic AI:
n=1814; Question text: What use cases has your company deployed AI agents for?)
Ask the report 32

--- Page 33 ---
1 2 3 4 Agents for security 5
Today’s CISO is laser-focused on
achieving the greatest decrease of risk
per dollar spent. Agents are essential to
this, as they detect and respond faster to
enterprise risks. More importantly, they
elevate our SOC analysts from tactical
responders to strategic defenders.”
Jon
Ramsey
Vice President & General Manager,
Security, Google Cloud
Specular, an offensive cybersecurity platform, builds
AI agents using the Gemini 2.5 Pro model to automate
attack surface management and penetration testing.
Their platform automates traditional workflows to
identify, assess, and remediate cybersecurity, helping
enterprises quickly prioritize and respond to threats.
Ask the report 33

--- Page 34 ---
1 2 3 4 Agents for security 5
The semi-autonomous
security operations cycle
An agentic SOC orchestrates a system
of task-based AI agents, each with a specific
role, to achieve a common security outcome.
After receiving a security alert, the agentic SOC
cycles through a process, engaging various agents:
Escalation
Human managed
Recommendation
Human managed
Alert Detection
AI agents
Triage and Threat research
investigation and hunt
Malware
analysis
Detection
Response
engineering
Support for Model Context Protocol (MCP) to build custom agentic
workflows across your entire security stack, including third-party tools
This dynamic process of evaluating, acting, Multiple SOC agents need common enterprise
and re-evaluating enables the system to context and can share the same security data
adapt to a changing security environment sources (e.g., security telemetry data), regularly
in real time, while freeing up time for human communicate, and adapt their actions through
analysts to focus on higher-value work. technologies like A2A and MCP. Agents should
also be trained on continuously evolving real-
world insights from security experts.
Ask the report 34

--- Page 35 ---
1 2 3 4 Agents for security 5
AI is already being used to find zero-
days, identify malicious code, and uplift
the work of defenders. As threat actors
incorporate the technology into their
operations, it will be our best tool to
meet this new challenge.”
Sandra
Joyce
Vice President of Threat Intelligence,
Google Cloud
Ask the report 35

--- Page 36 ---
1 2 3 4 Agents for security 5
How it works
Elevating the
security analyst
With the addition of agentic systems acting
as force multipliers, human analyst roles are
expected to change for the better. AI agents
can take on the draining, reactive work of “alert-
watching,” shifting the human analyst to a more
strategic level, engaging in activities such as:
Threat hunting
Using their intuition and experience to
guide the agents. Example: “Agent, I
have a hunch about this server. Hunt for
any unusual outbound data transfers.”
Supervising agents
Fine-tuning the agents’ “rules of
engagement” and “performance-
Torq uses agentic AI to automate
reviewing” their automated responses.
the entire security operations
lifecycle through Socrates, an
Defending
AI SOC analyst that coordinates
Focusing on long-term security posture,
specialized agents. Running on
architecting better defenses and
Google Cloud’s infrastructure,
anticipating the next wave of attacks,
rather than just chasing the current ones. teams achieve 90% automation
of tier-1 analyst tasks auto-
remediated without human
involvement, 95% decrease
in manual tasks and 10x faster
Explore Google
response times.
Security Operations
Get started
Ask the report 36

--- Page 37 ---
1 2 3 4 Agents for security 5
AI is transforming the security landscape in
both offense and defense, and AI infrastructure
including models, data, and agents are dramatically
expanding an enterprise’s attack surface area.
Security professionals must be deeply bilingual
in both AI and security, to stay ahead of advanced
AI threats from bad actors, and defend against
them with sophisticated AI tools.”
Francis
deSouza
COO and President, Security Products,
Google Cloud
Ask the report 37

--- Page 38 ---
1 2 3 4 Trend 5
Agents
for scale
Upskilling
talent will be
the ultimate
driver of
business
value
Ask the report 38

--- Page 39 ---
1 2 3 4 5 Agents for scale
It is tempting to focus on the
technology—the models, the
platforms, and prompts—but
this misses the most critical
element: the people.
As AI is evolving, the skills gap is widening and it’s
getting harder for individuals and organizations to
keep up. Skills themselves expire faster than ever:
The “half-life” of a professional skill is now four
years—and in tech, as short as two years.7
Both practitioners and decision-makers see the
importance of closing this gap. Skills increase
the ability to get hired, get promoted, and grow
careers—plus, they have a positive impact on
productivity, innovation, and revenue.
AI offers an unprecedented opportunity for
employees to harness the data and context
around them. 2026 will be the year when
every employee can go from guessing to
knowing—but only if their organizations
invest in the skills to make it possible.”
Andrew
Milo
Global Director, Customer Training,
Cloud Learning Services,
Google Cloud
7 Forbes, AI Puts The Squeeze On The Shrinking Half-life Of Skills, 2024
Ask the report 39

--- Page 40 ---
1 2 3 4 5 Agents for scale
What executives are saying:8
of decision-makers agree that
82%
technical learning resources help
their organization stay ahead in AI
of organizations surveyed realize
71%
an increase in revenue since
engaging with learning resources
What employees are saying:9
of employees at organizations that
61%
have already implemented AI use AI daily
(the remaining 39% using at least weekly)
84% would like a greater
organizational focus on AI
29% say that AI is broadly advocated
across their organizations
8 Google/Ipsos, Cloud Learning Services Market Pulse, fielded Sept.-
Nov. 2024 (U.S., U.K., FR, DE, IN, BR, MX, JP, AU/N.Z.; Decision-makers
(n=902). Findings reflect the opinion of survey respondents only)
9 Google, Beyond AI Optimism: Five ways to move your business
from saving time to sparking innovation, 2025
Ask the report 40

--- Page 41 ---
1 2 3 4 5 Agents for scale
In 2026, the shift of employee scope
to include agent management and
orchestration will create a skills gap.
It’s because the expertise to be an ‘agent
orchestrator’ or ‘Chief of Staff for AI’
simply doesn’t exist in the market yet.”
Shweta
Maniar
Director, Life Sciences,
Global Strategic Industries, Google Cloud
Ask the report 41

--- Page 42 ---
1 2 3 4 5 Agents for scale
How it works
The 5 pillars
of AI learning
To thrive, organizations must move
beyond simply buying technology
and focus on building an AI-ready
workforce. This requires a holistic
strategy built on five key pillars.
01
Establish goals
Figure out what is most important and
what you can actually measure. For example,
perhaps your business goal is 100% AI tool
adoption within your organization. So, every
team member would use a Gemini Enterprise
agent at some point in their workflow—
assisting them with increased recall, faster
processing, or enhanced reasoning—making
the flow better than what they could have
done on their own. Make sure your specific
business goal aligns to the bigger picture
of what the organization needs—and that
it’s measurable.
Ask the report 42

--- Page 43 ---
1 2 3 4 5 Agents for scale
02
Secure sponsorship
Gathering a team together ensures that there
is constant communication and momentum
around your AI initiative. A good place to start
is with a team of three primary stakeholders: an
executive sponsor, the groundswell lead, and
the AI accelerator. Let’s break these roles down.
The executive sponsor provides the
necessary funding, high-level backing, and
consistent messaging on AI’s importance.
The groundswell lead acts as the
“AI megaphone” by managing grassroots
campaigns, generating excitement,
and collecting employee ideas.
The AI accelerator is the technical
03
expert responsible for transforming those
prioritized ideas into functional solutions.
Sustain momentum
This structure ensures the program has
the support to be funded, the momentum
and reward innovation
to engage employees, and the technical
capability to deliver tangible AI tools.
To sustain engagement, the program should
use a layered strategy centered on interactive
platforms and consistent communication.
Think of the program as a “digital hub” featuring
a gamified idea exchange with a leaderboard
to continuously collect and reward AI use
cases and new ideas. Peer-to-peer knowledge
should be highlighted in a way that showcases
successful AI applications across various roles.
Maintain momentum through regular,
multichannel communication, including
weekly executive emails, content for all team
meetings, and a quarterly awards program
to recognize and reward top innovators.
Ask the report 43

--- Page 44 ---
1 2 3 4 5 Agents for scale
04 05
Integrate AI into Prepare for increasing risks
daily workflows with trusted frameworks
Keep the AI education going and tap into As agent-accelerated cyber security risks
your team’s collective genius by hosting become ever more sophisticated, security
internal hackathons where small teams becomes everyone’s responsibility. It’s critical
compete to develop and pitch innovative to ensure that employees understand their
AI solutions. Winning concepts could even role—including training on what data can
be integrated into the official program. (and cannot) be used in AI tools, and how
to recognize sophisticated threats like
Consider hosting Field Days, which are social engineering that uses AI.
structured, challenge-based events that
encourage teams to practice using the
new custom AI tools and other innovations
in a collaborative, practical setting.
These can be both in-person and virtual.
Ask the report 44

--- Page 45 ---
1 2 3 4 5 Agents for scale
AI adoption should be an ongoing story, instead of
just one chapter in a book. We had found that 96%
of team members reported that they had increased
confidence using AI tools. And 96% committed to
applying these tools in their work. Our Google Skills
training program has actually doubled in impact
from February all the way till September 2025.”
Gina Narvaez
Director of Digital Talent Team, TELUS
Try Google Skills
Find AI training courses and
lessons on a wide range of topics.
Get started
Ask the report 45

--- Page 46 ---
1 2 3 4 5 Agents for scale
When working with AI, executive boards and
leaders must prioritize upskilling their teams in
critical thinking and applying ethical judgment
in decision making. Since these skills are usually
built through experience, a bank, for example,
could first roll out its customer support chatbot
or agent internally. Employees could then
ask real questions to test and genuinely
understand the customer experience and
drive improvements in the application of AI.”
Georgina
Bulkeley
Director, Financial Services,
Global Strategic Industries, Google Cloud
Ask the report 46

--- Page 47 ---
The 2026
oppor tunity:
A path to
business
grow th
Ask the report 47

--- Page 48 ---
We have explored the five
critical shifts in business
driven by AI agents in 2026.
The redefined role of the employee as strategic The companies that experiment today are
orchestrator, the creation of “digital assembly not just building tools; they are building
lines” running core business processes, the rise the critical, in-house expertise to manage,
of the agentic concierge, the move to agentic govern, and scale this new capability.
security operations, and the need for a human-
centric upskilling strategy are changing the The 2026 opportunity can seem technical,
paths businesses are taking. but it is fundamentally human. It’s about
freeing your teams from the repetitive, low-
The curve for agentic systems might be value work that drains their energy, allowing
steep for some organizations, but the true them to focus on the creative, strategic,
value is not just in the final product, but and empathetic work that only they can do.
also in the innovation and optimization This is your path to building a faster, smarter,
that happens during the process. and ultimately, more human company.
Access to agentic AI capabilities will democratize
insights, innovation, creativity, and business growth,
bringing value to consumers, employees, and
organizations. This opportunity is truly significant,
but comes with tremendous responsibility
to ensure that the promise of AI delivers
secure, ethical, and fair outcomes for all.”
Anil
Jain
Global Managing Director,
Global Strategic Industries,
Google Cloud
Ask the report 48

--- Page 49 ---
See what
these trends
mean for your
business.
Get in touch
49

